You've got your content
straight in your mind,
it's all kind of beginning to
form up in a bit of a wireframe.
You haven't even thought
about aesthetics yet, but
that's okay cuz that's a problem for
another day.
We just wanna be sure that this
wireframe is right, right?
And the reason we wanna be sure
that this wireframe is right is A,
we wanna deliver a good product.
But B, we don't want our client or
our stakeholders picking it apart later.
We need solid evidence to back it up.
Now, you could do a huge
amount of testing on this.
You could do A/B testing,
you could do usability testing,
you could do all kinds of things.
But to be honest, I think it can
become a little overkill in that.
And you end up doing testing for
testing sake because that's what you're
supposed to do, rather than testing that's
actually useful in achieving our goals.
So most of the time
there's just two really
lightweight tests that I
do on wireframe pages.
And they can both be used with
a tool called UsabilityHub.
There are other tools available, but
that happens to be the one that I use.
And the two tests are called a 5-second
test and the first-click test, really,
really lightweight.
So let me explain the 5-second test first.
So a 5-second test, basically,
you take your wireframe of any key page,
you might do it with multiple pages cuz
you probably have wireframed quite a few.
And you get a URL that you can send
out to users through social media or
email, friends and family,
doesn't really matter.
It can be anybody that's not involved with
the project for this kind of test, right?
When we talk about aesthetics later,
it needs to be the target audience.
But in this situation, it really can
be just anybody outside of the project.
You send them a link,
they go to a website,
they're shown the wireframe that
you're testing for five seconds.
I normally set it for a bit longer, right?
I normally set it for eight seconds.
The reason being is because of that
research that says we've got about
eight seconds to swing
somebody to get them to stay.
So eight seconds, show them it,
then it gets taken away.
Then you can ask whatever
question you wanna ask, right?
So the two main questions I ask,
depending on the type of website,
let's say it's a marketing website.
I might ask the question,
what does this company do,
and does it look appealing to you?
Could be as simple as that, right?
The more common question, which is
one that you can use in almost all
circumstances, is the question,
what do you remember from this page?
Write a list of all the elements
that you saw, right?
So as a kid, I don't know whether you ever
played that game where you put loads of
things on a tray,
you covered it with a tea towel.
You saw it for a few seconds,
covered it back up,
and you had to remember
what was on the tray.
It's that, basically,
in a website testing form.
So then you can pay attention,
did they see all the key elements?
Did they see what I needed them to see,
right?
So from the top task analysis, I know
that they need to see this, this, this,
and this, did they see it, right?
Great, hard evidence.
So what that'll prove,
you know the classic make my logo bigger,
right, it's become a meme.
So why do clients say make my logo bigger?
Cuz they're worried people
will miss their branding and
won't realize who they are, right?
Do a 5-second test.
Did people see the logo?
Yes, they did.
We don't need to make it bigger then.
Solved it, instantly.
But also it's like,
that's below the fold, right?
They might not see it
cuz it's below the fold.
Did they see it?
Yes, they did.
Don't need to worry, right?
5-second test.
The other tests I do is
called a first-click test.
Again, a really easy test.
Does your navigation work, all right?
Do people know where to go to find x,
okay?
Really simple to test.
One of the most fascinating things is if
somebody gets, first, let's say you're
testing something really deep in your app,
right, some hidden piece of functionality.
There is a fascinating piece of research
that shows if they get the first click
right, if they're heading in
the right direction, okay,
the probability of them completing
the task jumps up considerably.
So that's why the first click matters so
much, right?
So let's say you wanna test,
are they gonna find this
particular feature in your app?
You show the homepage or
the feature or the, sorry,
the homepage of the app or the overall
interface of the app or whatever.
And you say,
let's imagine you wanted to do x, right?
Where would you click?
And then you see where they click on
the page and you get a heat map back.
And the heat map will basically show
you where they clicked on the page.
Did they click on the right link to
take them in the right direction or
did they not?
If they did, you know you're heading in a
good direction with the interface, right?
Now it's not that you didn't follow
the user the whole way through yet, but
that's okay.
You know that they got
the first click right, and
that's good evidence to show
you're in the right direction.
Those two tests you can set up and
get results back that
are valuable in under an hour,
doing both of them, right?
It is so quick and so simple to do.
And if you go, but
I can't recruit the people, right?
I don't know why you would do that,
but yeah, I can't recruit the people.
Well, like I said, you can use anybody,
you can use friends and family.
But even if you wanted to do people
that were a bit more appropriate,
UsabilityHub will recruit people for
you to complete these surveys for
like a dollar a person, right?
It's so easy,
there is no reason not to do this.
You think how many man hours have been
wasted sitting in meetings, debating
with various stakeholders about is the
logo big enough or will people see this?
Or will they understand that or any of
these questions, stop discussing it,
just test it, it's so simple.
And going back to your little micro tests,
these kinds of tests are ideal for
those scenarios, really simple to do.
So yeah, don't worry,
yeah, go for your question.
>> Yeah,
how would you factor in annoying content
like legal, cookies, or must have text?
>> Yeah, I work a lot in
the financial services sector,
which is highly regulated, and so
I'm battling with this all the time.
You quantify how big a damage it's having,
right?
So there's a couple of ways of doing that.
One is that you run your 5-second test,
right?
One without that information in there and
one with it in there, right?
And you do a comparison between the two.
Do people not spot
important stuff as often
because of all the clutter
of the legalese and
terms and conditions around it, right?
So you could do a 5-second test and
a comparison 5-second test,
that's one way you could do it.
The other way you could do it is you could
do it through your A/B testing, right?
We're gonna A/B test with that
stuff there and with it out there.
Now your problem is that A/B testing
is gonna be more problematic cuz you
might be doing that with live
transactions on a live site.
So that segment of the audience
will be non-compliant.
If you're in that kind of situation,
you probably can't do A/B testing and
you'll do a 5-second test instead.
You can also do something called
a semantic differential survey, right?
Which I'm gonna come to in a minute,
which is a very pretentious name for
a really great, easy survey.
And what you can judge there is how
much through a survey like that of doing
a comparison again.
You can judge how much that
legalese undermines trust or
some kind of emotional response to it.
So you can test both whether
it's distracting people and
whether it's making them
less likely to purchase.
So I'll come on to the other
survey in just a minute, but yeah